- Proposal Name:
- Status: draft/in-progress/completed/rejected/obsolete/postponed
- Start Date: YYYY-MM-DD
- Authors:
- RFC PR: (PR link after acceptance of initial draft)
- Cockroach/Jira Issue:

**Remember, you can submit a PR with your RFC before the text is
complete. Refer to the [README](README.md#rfc-process) for details.**

# Summary

One paragraph explanation of the proposed change.

Suggested contents:

- What is being proposed
- Why (short reason)
- How (short plan)
- Impact

# Detailed reason

Why are we doing this? What use cases does it support? What is the
expected outcome?

Take into account that a engineering manager will want to connect this
work with milestone goals. How will the proposed change impact team
velocity and onboarding?

## Detailed plan

What / how.

Outline both "how it works" and "what needs to be changed and in which
order to get there."

How do we teach or enforce this?

- Can it be enforced with a lint rule? If so, which one?
- Explain how code reviewers should think about the change, and how
  it should impact the way they review frontend code.
- If applicable, provide sample error messages, deprecation warnings,
  or migration guidance.

## Detailed impact

If applicable, list mitigating factors that may make any drawbacks
acceptable.

Investigate the consequences of the proposed change onto all frontend
applications. If possible, also investigate and suggest mitigating
actions that would reduce the impact. You can for example consider
additional validation testing, additional documentation or doc
changes, etc.

## Unresolved questions

- What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the RFC
  process before this gets merged?
- What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the
  implementation of this feature before stabilization?
- What related issues do you consider out of scope for this RFC that
  could be addressed in the future independently of the solution that
  comes out of this RFC?
